blog: add a new post about HTTPS /consolidation for mirrors.jenkins.io (#5139)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2022/05/2022-05-13-mirrors.jenkins.io-HTTPS.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Enforced HTTPS and consolidation for the Jenkins Mirrors"
tags:
- infrastructure
- mirrors
- jenkins
authors:
- dduportal
:sig: infra
description: >

>   The 19th of May 2022, the domain `mirrors.jenkins.io` will be forced to HTTPS and consolidated to the same system as `get.jenkins.io`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The 19th of May 2022, the domain `mirrors.jenkins.io` will be forced to HTTPS and consolidated into the same system as `get.jenkins.io`.
```

---

The Jenkins project provides a download mirror infrastructure allowing to download Jenkins packages and plugins from a download server close to your location.

== How Does it Work?

When a download request is emitted to either `mirrors.jenkins.io` or `get.jenkins.io`, an HTTP redirect response to a mirror download server is answered.

The Jenkins infrastructure as a database of existing mirror servers provided by volunteers and donators.

> This database is used to select the closest mirror to your location: that is the role of the services `mirrors.jenkins.io` and `get.jenkins.io`.

Author: ```
The Jenkins infrastructure uses a database of existing mirror servers provided by volunteers and donators to select the closest mirror to your location: 
this is currently the role of the distinct `mirrors.jenkins.io` and `get.jenkins.io` services.
```

== Consolidation

> The system behind `mirrors.jenkins.io` is using a software named link:https://mirrorbrain.org/["mirrorbrain"] and as been originally used by the Jenkins infrastructure to provide download redirections to mirrors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The system behind `mirrors.jenkins.io` is using a software named link:https://mirrorbrain.org/["mirrorbrain"] and was originally used by the Jenkins infrastructure to provide download redirections to mirrors.
```

> But a new system was introduced in 2020: `get.jenkins.io` is using link:https://github.com/etix/mirrorbits["mirrorbits"] which is a great fit for a Kubernetes environment (lightweight, horizontally scalable) and provide a set of nice WebUI features to "see" the mirror list and grading.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new system was introduced in 2020: `get.jenkins.io`, using link:https://github.com/etix/mirrorbits["mirrorbits"] which is a great fit for a Kubernetes environment (lightweight, horizontally scalable) and provides a set of nice WebUI features to see the mirror list and grading.
```

INFO: Try it by yourself: check the mirrors providing the latest Jenkins LTS distribution: https://get.jenkins.io/war-stable/2.332.3/jenkins.war?mirrorlist[]

It's been 2 years and the new system is clearly the most reliable: that's why we, the Jenkins Infrastructure team, want to retire the "mirrorbrain" system.

In consequence, the 19th of May 2022, the domain name `mirrors.jenkins.io` will be changed to point to the actual "mirrorbits" system already available at `get.jenkins.io`.

This consolidation ensures that all users downloading a Jenkins package or plugin will use the closest download mirror to their location, without having to maintain 2 distinct systems.

== Enforced HTTPS

The main consequence is that the HTTPS protocol will be enforced for the request to the domain `mirrors.jenkins.io`.

> The "mirrorbrain" system currently serving requests behind the domain `mirrors.jenkins.io` is not available through HTTPS, which a safety issue for users downloading files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The "mirrorbrain" system currently serving requests behind the domain `mirrors.jenkins.io` is not available through HTTPS, which is a safety issue for users downloading files.
```

> The 19th of May 2022, that won't be the case anymore: like `get.jenkins.io`, HTTPS will be available and enforced for the requests going through the former domain `mirrors.jenkins.io`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 19th of May 2022, that won't be the case anymore: like `get.jenkins.io`, HTTPS will be available and enforced for the requests going through the domain `mirrors.jenkins.io`.
```
With "former" I read it as it would be decommissioned.

> == What Does it Change?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== What Does it Change for me?
```
No idea which word would need or not funky capitalisation here

Author: ```suggestion
== What Does It Change for Me?
```

Author: As per https://capitalizemytitle.com/style/Chicago/ :)

- Short answer: nothing. You should already be using the domain `get.jenkins.io` as it's been the default since almost 2 years, and the content served by both system is the same.

- Long answer: if you are still using the former `mirrors.jenkins.io` and are not able to switch to `get.jenkins.io`, you'll see the following changes:
  - 🌍 The mirror usually selected might change as the grading system on mirrorbits is different (and covers way more mirrors): faster downloads for you!

>   - 🔐 Your HTTP requests will be redirected to the same URL but using the HTTPS protocol with a valid TLS certificate signed by the Let's Encrypt authority: improved safety!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 🔐 Your HTTP requests will be redirected to their corresponding URL using the HTTPS protocol with a valid TLS certificate signed by the Let's Encrypt authority: improved safety!
```
